All right we're back with another cool tactic you can use to come up with some content ideas.
This time I want to talk about the Google Keyword planner if you know anything about it you might know
it's usually used by marketers to find keywords for creating ads.
However we can use the same tool to find keywords for creating content.
Let's start by opening up the Google Keyword planner.
I can never remember what the R L is usually Google Google Keyword planner and you can find it nowadays.
I think you actually need an outwards account to access.
So if you don't have one just go through the process and sign up.
It's fine because it's completely free and you should have signed up for it before we set it up and
like Section 4.
But what are all paused the video and all weight behind the play button.
All right after you have an account all set up you might have to go up to the Tools menu at the top
so it will click that and then go down to keyword planner and click that to get where we want to go.
Well it's your on the keyword player screen it should look something like this.
It'll ask you where you want to start.
So let's pick the first option on the first section is called search for new keywords by using a phrase
website or category.
Clickety click click click and opens up a form underneath the first few fields are the most important
in your product or service field.
Type in exactly what you offer in the form of a search term.
Could be graphic design consulting services work could be dog walking app.
What do you offer or what do you do.
Shouldn't be too hard.
Just type it in there and just a couple words below that you've got your landing page.
And now if you're doing an ad campaign you put in your landing page you are all right here.
They'd scan it and get the keywords off and do some of the work for you.
All right.
We're just doing research for content so you can you can enter the you are all of a different page that
has some relevant keywords if you want or I think you can actually skip this one if you have a great
blog post written about yourself.
You could intern that you are L..
You can also put in the you are Alpher your about page or I don't know.
Sometimes you just put in your home page and that's generally good enough.
Now the next thing is the product category.
This pulldown is going to take you on a journey so you'll have to look around and see if you can find
a relevant match for yourself.
You know that dog walking app we're always mentioning that it's like Barker Wolf I swear I need to learn
the name of it.
Well you go on your hobbies and leisure.
You can actually then go to pets and animals and you'll find dog walking.
How about that.
If you get stuck on where to go just click all categories again and look around and you know do some
more of there.
OK now the next thing on the page is targeting the first couple of fields looking for specifics and
the location and language of your audience.
And this part you want to think about your customers and where they'd be searching from to find content
about someone like you if you will be looking for local customers and hope they'll look for you then
you can enter your city and stay in the U.S. for example.
But for now if you're not just folks in a local municipality or state or whatever you just type in United
States or whatever country you're in follow the same logic when choosing your language in the next field
as well.
OK let's leave everything else as is some of the features apply more to ad campaigns and for now it's
easier to see what you've got with just these results.
So hit that button that says get ideas at the bottom and let the keyword planner crunch the magic numbers.
The next screen will show you results in the form of keyword ideas.
Now these keyword phrases listed below have been search for with various levels of interest this is
all being pulled out of Google's massive pile of search data that interest is measured by the average
monthly search numbers.
Now what you'll see are ranges but look obviously for the higher numbers.
That means there's more demand for those searches.
So what are we seeing from this tool that can help you create content.
Well the keyword phrases and combinations you see here can be used to come up with ideas for blog posts
and social media updates.
For example let's say you're still developing that dog walking and we talked about before and then you
know the buzz seemed to lecture and like I don't know 30 seconds ago.
Now if you go into dog walking app for your description and dog walking under the category you'll see
keyword results that include dog walking services and even something like dog sitter.
So how can you use this information to come up with continuities.
Well perhaps the people searching for pet sitting services on Google would want to hear about our dog
walking app if they saw in a blog post that people who use the app will off their dog more and spent
less on dog walking services that be worth something if it.
Know if this was true of course you can take it a step further and combine these ideas with those popular
content formats.
We mentioned a few videos back remember interviews and ultimate guides and top 10 list.
Well how about making making dog walking easy.
An interview with our app designer or how about top 10 ways you can use a dog walking app while on vacation.
There's a lot of possibilities and someone will land on it and read it.
Now think about why people are searching for the terms that keyword planner shows you.
And then come up with a connection.
If there is one you've got yourself a topic you can try.
You can't make a connection Well then just move on to the next phrase.
But if none of the phrases really work for you change up your information let's try a different phrase
to describe yourself or try a different category you'll eventually get something.
In fact let's try another example right now.
What's clear keyword planner from the Tools menu.
Go back to where we started with this.
Now what's the idea of web design consulting.
So I'm going to write some blog posts and try and build up the following.
Get some more clients whatever I'm going to type in web design agency here in the first field than under
Categories.
We'll go to Internet and telecom and then Internet networks and then finally we can actually narrow
it down to web design and development.
Oh and one more thing I'll say I live in the Portland Oregon area and I'm only looking for local clients.
I don't live in Portland.
That's not true.
But let's pretend.
Let's just say that's how I roll.
Going to enter that in the location field.
Got it.
OK.
So now let's hit it.
Ideas so I'm going to poke around these results a lot of the first ones really all look like.
I mean it's a lot of the same terms I think is really jumping out at me here.
Well I'm going to try something I'm going to go up to the top where it has my description and I'm going
to change it again.
I'm going into the agency because well you know I do web design.
Maybe if I use a simpler term it will help me find some more interesting phrase that any agency is kind
of pigeonholing me.
OK.
So refresh the results.
And while they are now the first 10 or so all sounds the same.
We've got web developer web development and web designer.
All right.
But if I keep scrolling some more down here at the bottom I'm seeing some adjectives in there and this
is actually more interesting now look at professional web site design or a good web site design affordable
website design.
Now that's an actual trend for you.
People are looking for web design services that are cheap and also good.
And you know what I can work with that it's not impossible if somebody were searching for that.
What type of content piece could you make that they would find interesting.
We could write some blog posts that include those terms for sure.
We could write something like the five essential elements for professional web site design or how to
choose the right agency for good and affordable web site design something like that you're appealing
to these people that search for those terms we mentioned before.
But with the content you show off your expertise proving that you know what you're talking about maybe
even sprinkle in and examples of your own work or links to case studies you've done that where you get
them.
If you create an info graphic of the steps they need to take to ensure that web site design gets done
correctly then you can brand it with your logo and you are all that way when someone reads it they will
know exactly where it came from.
Even if someone shared it offsite.
All right so whatever you make or do you the keyword planner can give you some ideas for things right
right set up just coming up with ideas out of thin air.
You can think of ones related to search terms that are actually in demand.
Check it out.
I think it's incredibly useful.
See the next lecture.